[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay, so
we've got terminology.
So, if you hover and
hold shift over any one of these things.
Let's find a juicy one,
>> Jon Kuperman: Like this one, all right.
So, I'm gonna hold shift while I hover
over this and I get this modal pop up.
So, we've got a bunch of different terms
here and each term gets its own color.
On a more interesting site, like if you do
this on your production site you'll see
a lot more colors than just green and
blue.
You'll see like oranges and
yellows and all that kind of stuff.
So, we've got all these different terms.
So, I'm gonna cover each one of them and
then kind of come back and
we can take a look at it because the terms
matter as much as the time loaded.
Cuz you need to figure out
what's actually wrong.
So, we've got queuing, so
if you see queuing taking a long time
there's a couple of
things that can happen.
One thing is that browsers
try to be smart and
they try to prioritize each
item by the type that it is.
So, we can see that and
over here there's a priority tab, right?
So, you can see is that the highest
priority of the document,
we need the document, you need the CSS.
And then JavaScript high.
It's really important but
it's not as important as the CSS
cuz CSS needs to be there.
And then if you ended up with stuff
like a bunch of images or fonts or
things like that you'll see
the priorities kinda going down.
So, an item might be queuing even though
it's an earlier request cuz Chrome doesn't
think it's a very important request.
>> Jon Kuperman: It can also be waiting on
hold, again, like I said you can only
have so many, here it is it's six,
I think I said five earlier.
Chrome can only handle
six concurrent requests.
So, if for the very beginning of your
document you have seven style sheets.
The seventh one is gonna be queued,
put on hold, until the six have completed.
And then, yeah, this is like disk cache
entries, that's not really important.
Really if you're seeing queuing,
it's either, it's a low priority item or
it's marked that way, or it's too many
requests and you can't do that one.
So, that's queueing.
The next one is stalled or blocking.
It's like the same thing as queuing,
they're very similar.
Stalled or
blocking also might be indicative of
you having a proxy server that's slow.
So if you have like some
caching server somewhere and
you're seeing a big stalled and
blocking in a small queuing,
there's a good chance that your
proxy server is taking a long time.
And that's what's causing it.
Usually, you see queuing as the,
if there's a latency it's
gonna be in the queuing field.
Also you'll see some information here,
this is just a timestamp of
how long the proxy negotiations took,
so as like the DNS call goes out.
I don't wanna get I guess too far in
to the that working, I just want you to
understand okay, I have a really wide
bar but why is it, why is it slow?
DNS look up, again I don't think I've
ever run into this being the cause of
anything slow but it is worth it.
It's kinda cool that every
request Chrome sends out,
it timestamps each step of the process for
you.
So yeah, this is just like
hitting a domain name service and
transferring your IP to a domain name.
Establishing a connection, this could be,
I have never seen this one slow either,
it is part of TCP handshakes.
It could be failing and retrying and
also how long it takes to make the SSL
connection but
I've never seen this one as a problem.
So, if you see as a problem you're on
your own but feel free to tweet at me and
I help you investigate.
This is just the pure SSL part of it.
And then the actual time of the network
request, how long the request sent.
And so, it's the time that it took
the server to start sending
the request basically.
This one is how long it took
from when the request was sent
until the first byte was
received by the browser.
And so, this is where things kind of get
interesting where it's most commonly your
problem is gonna be in some a slow server,
a slow network connection, a big files.
Here's where we really start seeing that.
So, this is like I send off a request for
a stylesheet and
then I get a timestamp,
1:00 PM request was sent.
And then time to first byte
received is like 1:02 PM,
obviously it would be
milliseconds not minutes.
But, so now you're like, okay, it took you
not a lot of time to send the file, but
it took me a really long
time to receive it.
It's probably a network issue.
Or it took you a really
long time to send it,
I received it just fine after you finally
started, it's probably a slow server.
And then this is just like the actual
process of those bytes coming down, so
this is gonna be purely
your network connection.
But if you're seeing slow content download
you probably don't think my gosh,
my users need to be faster.
You probably wanna start thing about how
you can make your files smaller, right?
Because if you as a web developer likely
from this class in a first world country,
on a powerful machine like
a MacBook Pro or something.
If you're seeing long
content download times,
you gotta believe a lot of your users
are having excruciating download times.
Cool, so having said that we
can start holding shift and
taking a look at some of these,
so you can see it queued for
6 milliseconds, that's nothing,
not worry about that at all.
It wasn't stalled for
very long either probably just the time
it took to negotiate all that stuff.
The request was sent
basically immediately, so
my server is doing a really good job.
And then it's like I didn't start
receiving the first byte for,
I think that's really fast,
100 milliseconds.
But that's like the one thing I might
might keep my eye on or whatever.
Is maybe I could send less or
maybe I could, things like that.
The content download didn't
even take a millisecond,
so I'm really happy with that.
So, out of anything here, I mean,
I think this is a great chart but
out of anything here is like time to first
bite was kind of what took a while, so
I might start investigating
that little bit.
Again, on a big production app, you'll
start seeing a ton of different colors.
And you'll start really seeing,
this file took a second to download,
or something like that.
And we're gonna do some examples
where there are some really bad ones.
So, just kind of important to go over,
yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
I just wanna point out,
some of us aren't seeing the priority
column.
>> Jon Kuperman: So
sorry.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
if you right click on there.
>> Jon Kuperman: So, yeah.
So, mine's over here.
There's actually a bunch of
extra columns you can add, so
you can right click on any one of these
and make sure that priority is checked.
For those that aren't seeing it-
>> Speaker 3: Not even in the list of
available.
>> Jon Kuperman: Really?
>> Speaker 2: It is for me.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, I was able to do it.
>> Jon Kuperman: [LAUGH]
Okay.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
it's not there.
>> Speaker 4: It's not in your
list?
>> Speaker 5: [CROSSTALK]
protocol.
>> Speaker 3: I don't think so.
>> Speaker 6: Hit right [CROSSTALK].
>> Speaker 7: Jon, you have a secret
version of- [CROSSTALK]
>> Jon Kuperman: Well somebody sees it,
right?
>> Speaker 2: I see it.
>> Speaker 4: I see it.
>> Jon Kuperman: There we go.
Sorry, yeah, I mean so again it's,
[LAUGH] they move fast, things change.
Priority is not really important because
you can figure it out just by file type.
That's really all it's doing, so it's
gonna give the document the high end CSS
the highest priority, because those
are absolutely crucial for render.
And it's going to give all JavaScript
high priority because we'd like to have
that stuff.
And then things like Async or deferred
scripts, anything like that, images,
all that kind of stuff is gonna start
slowly trickle down the priority line.
Sorry if you're not seeing it.
I'm not sure why but it is not vital for
any of the stuff that we're gonna to
be doing.
>> Speaker 2: Next question is how does
the network tab work with
HTTP streaming or WebSockets?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so basically yeah,
so WebSockets will work.
It basically works really well
with both of those things.
So, it handles like Ajax, WebSocket
requests all as their own type and
so you'll see a WebSocket
type event in here.
And each transmission from it, you'll
see as a viewable, how long it took, how
big it was, all that kind of stuff, yeah?
>> Speaker 8: The screenshots thing was
really interesting.
But you had a ton of screenshots and
I have like two.
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay,
I had a ton on Twitter.
Because, and I didn't know
that they started doing this,
they're fading those images
in on the home page.
So there was a re-paint for
every one opacity that they filled in.
So yeah, screenshots are gonna
be taken when an important
up re-paint of any kind happened.
So, on the current page that we're on
there's one initial paint is all there is.
On a web application there's gonna be
like a ton of different paints as things
go around.
So yeah, mileage may vary on those for
sure.
>> Speaker 8: So,
it only generates a screenshot when
you're re-paints, not when it loads,
well I suppose it re-paints every
time that loads a new resource.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so
it's not gonna re-paint when
it downloads a stylesheet, but
it will re-paint if it
applies to anything.
So, if you had a stylesheet
with no used rules in it,
that wouldn't trigger a screenshot.
But yeah, every image,
every style change, every content change,
all that stuff will trigger one.